Out of school the street was our playground and as the Portwey was not a through road until the 1930's mid even then little used it was a quite large play area, the area also included the first part of The Litelmede which was a hill, the propulsion power of gravity for any type of wheeled vehicle. Slowly but surely the clique that was the neighbouring residents stablished a community where the news of the exploits or misdemeanors were well known to all the street. and reputations were established for perpetual borrowers, handy-men, gardeners, social advice and other domestic services which are now part of our lives governed by the state but in those days the community was self regulating and self governing and was far less impersonal. The children at the same time basked in the reflected glory of their parents and were cliques in their own right mainly governed by age restriction. However, it was very useful to have an elder brother who would fight for you but it also caused trouble among the older groups when two elder brothers or sisters were defending the rights of their own family. Reading over this it sounds a though there was a lot of disagreement but this was not so as defence was only undertaken in a just cause. What is apparent is the sense of fair play that existed in all areas young and old and how easy it was to settle everything by talking and not by force, force was the last resort and shouting and arguing was more (?)

It was about this time that I discovered that the street was not the limit of the universe and that another world existed outside the route to school and back The first one discovered was on the corner of St. Barnabas' Road and French Road where there was a large field where now stands St, Barnabas' Library. This field was meadow grass and was cut two or three times a year for hay. The cutting was done by hand by an old man with a scythe and to a child, to see the grass fall in swaths with the regular strokes of the scythe was fascinating and to see him stop every twenty or thirty strokes to sharpen the scythe was even more fascinating. Eventually adventurousness grew and we graduated to finding another way home by going down French Road and through the gardens (allotments) opposite French Road after crossing Kitchener Road. One of our classmates grandad had a smallholding growing tomatoes on the way at which we sometimes stopped. We eventually arrived at Coleman Road after crossing the tram tracks which had a private road of their own. Up Coleman Road and across Uppingham Road and we arrived at the Portwey. Deviations
