## Friends and neighbours just before school

Shortly before starting school I found that the other children in the street were either friends or enemies. Reg Cooper was one of the first I knew, as my mother was a great friend of Mrs. Cooper who was older and wiser than her and, after the scalding of my shoulder, they became quite close friends and consequently we knew the children: Mabel, Reg and later on Tommy who died of meningitis while still a child. Reg was older than me so I was always slightly frightened of him. Further up the street lived Fred Soars and Ken Frost. They were more my age so a natural affinity developed between us.

### An accident-prone best freind

My great friend was Fred Soars and, up to the time he was called up for the second world war, serving in Italy where he was wounded. We were absolutely inseparable—even to the point of us both being apprenticed to the same trade and spending our lives in the printing industry. It was Fred who had a serious accident coming home one Saturday night. He and Reg Cooper were racing down the Humberstone Hill and collided with a car. He was in the infirmary for a while but came out a hero in our eyes, with broken bones and a large gash on his chin, a scar he carried for the rest of his life. Fred was always the instigator of what we did, but was always prone to something happening to him. I doubt if even he could tell you the number of times he broke his arm. He always seemed to be in plaster for some reason or another. It must have had an effect on his health as he was sent to the open air school at Western Park to be “built up” (as it was phrased then). After the war he married one of the group of girls we knew, and I am sad to say we lost contact.

---

<a href="./WAE-12.html">Previous</a> | <a href="../03-schooldays/WAE-14.html">Next</a>
