way down my back and under my arm and on the top of my shoulder. It was vivid red and all the guides and pattern of destroyed flesh could be plainly seen and 1 was ashamed to take my shirt off until 1 started secondary school, many years later. In infant school was examined by the school nurse and doctor and they thought that the healing was quite remarkable and 1 had to perform all sorts of movements to show there was no loss of use. The holes in the flesh were large enough to get a child's little finger into to nearly the depth of the first joint. Nowadays 1 never think about it and the car has not grown with the surrounding tissue so 11 is proportionately smaller and the colour has paled into insignificance.

Because we were living on the edge of the town there were not a lot of shops in the area and the main ones were The Co-operative Society Store on the Uppingham. Road, Sweets and newspaper shop at the corner of Trafford Road and another grocers Hills on the corner of Coleman Road. The milkman, who delivered the milk with a pony and cart was a tall gaunt man called Mr. Heggs, his dairy was halfway down Trafford Road and was always cold and spotlessly dean, Mrs. Heggs sold butter and other dairy produce in the small shop attached. The milk on the milk float was carried in chums and the milk was poured unto large oval shaped cans to bring it to the door. When [lie lid was lifted on the can there were measure for the different quantities and this was then poured from the measure into your jug. The baker similarly delivered to the door, the baker being Squires. They had a different kind of horse and cart, the cart having small wheels at the front and large wheels- at the rear. The loaves were in trays in the back of the van dose by double doors. the baker (and the horse always stopped for their dinner at lunch time outside the house and we used to go to see the horse although my mother had a great fear of horses. The horse nosebag was carried on the cart and was hung on his head for his feed, usually oats, every so often h would throw up his head to shake the oats to bottom of his bag. All the horses seemed to be friendly although some wore muzzles. The dustbin man's horse was of a sturdier build and he pulled a two wheeled tumbrel which could be tipped. 1 used to think that if the cart got too full it would lift the horse off the ground although it never did. similar kinds of carts were used by the road menders and builders for carrying bulk materials such as stone and sand etc. The horses deposits were eagerly collected by the people who were enthusiastic gardeners.
