Most side roads were either cobbled in the older areas or, on the new estates, were stone covered in black ash which was the foundation for the future tarred finish. The roads were compacted by fascinating steam rollers which chugged forward for about fifty yards and then reversed. The roadstone and the surface materials were distributed by gangs of men, the whole operational cycle being labour orientated. Work was never rushed and was carried out at a leisurely pace, although the working day and week were quite long. All roadworks were guarded at night by a night watchman who had a small canvas shelter and a brazier with a roaring coke fire just in front. Most watchmen were old men past their working life. They were glad of the company of anyone who, on their way home from work, would sit with them and chat, and warm themselves ready for the completion of their walk home from work.

Living in a street that was a dead end made it possible for us, even as very young children, to use the street as a playground. Shortly before starting school I found that the other children in the street were either friends or enemies. Reg Cooper was one of the first I knew, as my mother was a great friend of Mrs. Cooper who was older and wiser than her and, after the scalding of my shoulder, they became quite close friends and consequently we knew the children: Mabel, Reg and later on Tommy who died of meningitis while still a child. Reg was older than me so I was always slightly frightened of him. Further up the street lived Fred Soars and Ken Frost. They were more my age so a natural affinity developed between us. Fred was a great friend up until the second world war when he went into the army, serving in Italy where he was wounded. After the war he married one of the group of girls we knew, and I am sad to say we lost contact.

My father worked on the railway when we first moved into the Portwey and he used to keep his bicycle in the kitchen, as he started as a knocker-up then a cleaner and finally as a goods checker. His father and grandfather had both worked on the railway. Sometimes he worked days and sometimes he worked nights and his cycle was the property of the railway. The thing I remember about this is the paraffin lamp on the front of the bike which had to be filled with paraffin, the wick trimmed and lit the tank with the wick alight put into the housing with a vent on top and a spring mounting for the lamp bracket the bulls-eye glass at the front was clipped closed and the two coloured glass windows at the side, port and starboard, red and green. When all was assembled the flame burnt steadily and brightly without smoke although the vent at the top got very hot.

Although my father worked hard and long peculiar hours, he always had time for the children, both me and my sister, and I remember well sharing his meal when he arrived home and sitting in a large chair on his knee while he sang to me.

